# How does Autonomys Work?

Autonomys revolves around Auto ID, a composable digital identity standard that may be issued to every human and AI on the planet. All identities are maintained within the Auto registry, a network of native smart contract rollups for issuing and verifying Auto IDs. Human users may connect their Auto ID to existing online identities and compose a multi-factor proof-of-personhood, allowing them to digitally sign the content they produce online. AI service providers may also issue Auto IDs to their AI models, chatbots, and agents, allowing their outputs to be more easily identified online. Human users may also combine their Auto IDs with those of their AI tools, allowing them to demonstrate the joint provenance of AI generated content they publish online.

Auto ID also serves as the basis for autonomous decentralized finance (AutoFi). AutoFi is system of native smart contract rollups for sending, minting, burning, swapping, borrowing, lending, and bridging Auto Cash and Auto Coin. Every AutoFi address resolves to an Auto ID, which may be controlled by a human user, an autonomous AI agent, or some combination thereof.

Auto ID also serves as the basis for the Autonomous Collective (AutoCo), a network of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) implemented as native smart contract rollups. Each DAO has an off-chain governance forum and an on-chain voting protocol, all of which are facilitated by AI assistants on behalf of human users. This allows DAOs to realize their true potential and unlock the collective intelligence of human organizations at much larger scales.

Given the safety implications and potential misuse of autonomous infrastructure for AI, Autonomys does not support the permissionless deployment of smart contracts on to the network. Instead, a community driven review process guided by our governance framework serves as an initial filter, followed by comprehensive security and safety audits funded by the Subspace Foundation. The purpose of this process is to maintain the network's integrity without hindering experimentation and innovation.
