# Auto Score

As we pointed out [here](../../../additional-learning/ai-basics/proof-of-personhood.md), current solutions to proof-of-personhood suffer from a trade-off between security and user-friendliness. To be scalable, efficient, and secure, the system should have no biometrics collection, should be open-source from top to bottom, and should have a mechanism for claiming and re-issuing the identity.

Auto ID aims to provide an Auto Score, a probability rating that a given entity is a human. We will leverage the foundations laid by existing proof-of-personhood protocols, as well as other services that support identity claims, such as OIDC providers and government registries. Claims linking an Auto ID to a wide range of services will allow users to construct a profile that offers different levels of "proof" of their personhood.

This information can then be aggregated into their Auto Score that can be presented to a service that requires some minimum probability of human-ness in order to interact with it. Creating an Auto Score from a user's identity claims can be approached in various ways, each tailored to specific use cases. Currently, we are actively researching and refining the scoring methodology.\
\
**Calculating Auto Score**\
[_This is an early outline of Auto Score. The steps and providers references below might and likely be changed or adjustment during the development._](#user-content-fn-1)[^1]

The Auto Score is a unified metric calculated for individuals who have an Auto ID, integrating various verified attributes from multiple online identities such as Google, Apple ID, and World ID. This score is derived from identity claims which could range from simple email verifications to complex biometric data like retina scans. The aim is to centralize these disparate claims into one identity—Auto ID—to facilitate various functionalities including a reliable score of "humanness."

To achieve this, Autonomys employs a system that uses OpenID Connect (OIDC) providers to securely transfer identity claims to an Auto ID. This method ensures that while users consolidate their identity attributes from different platforms, their privacy is safeguarded through advanced technologies like zero-knowledge proofs and blind signatures. These technologies are designed to verify the claims without compromising the anonymity of the user.

Ultimately, the Auto Score is calculated using various methods that might include the summation of weighted claims, normalization to adjust scores into a standard range, or incorporating additional heuristics to refine accuracy. This scoring process not only supports the functionality of the Auto ID but also enhances the security and utility of digital identities across platforms.

**Let’s have a look at the real-world example usefulness of Auto Score**

Alice, an avid online shopper, relies heavily on product reviews to make informed purchasing decisions. Lately, she's grown disillusioned as she suspects many reviews are generated by AI rather than genuine human experiences. After all, the products Alice buys are meant for humans, not AI, so their reviews can't genuinely gauge the user experience. Unable to trust the authenticity of online reviews, Alice shifts her shopping habits to in-store purchases for better quality assessment. This trend caught on among other online shoppers, leading to a realization that AI-generated reviews compromise product trustworthiness. In response, online shopping platforms begin integrating proof-of-personhood services to ensure human reviewers only. Only the reviews written by entities with a high Auto Score are published on the online shopping platforms. With this change, Alice eagerly returns to the convenience and delight of online shopping, knowing that authenticity is restored.





[^1]: 
